# Chapter 4 Syntax Analysis

> NOTE: 
>
> This chapter is mainly about algorithms of parsing or syntax analysis, I extend it to include algorithms  relevant to parsing in wikipedia which is listed in section **Wikipedia Parsing algorithms** 

This chapter is devoted to parsing methods that are typically used in compilers. We rst present the basic concepts, then techniques suitable for **hand implementation**, and finally **algorithms that have been used in automated tools**. Since programs may contain syntactic errors, we discuss extensions of the parsing methods for **recovery from common errors**.

> NOTE:
>
> 一、"Since programs may contain syntactic errors, we discuss extensions of the parsing methods for recovery from common errors."
>
> "error recovery"
>
> 二、hand implementation、algorithm in automated tools

By design, every programming language has precise rules that prescribe the syntactic structure of well-formed programs. In C, for example, a program is made up of functions, a function out of declarations and statements, a statement out of expressions, and so on. The syntax of programming language constructs can be specied by **context-free grammars** or **BNF (Backus-Naur Form)** notation, introduced in Section 2.2. Grammars offer signicant benefits for both language designers and compiler writers.

1、A grammar gives a precise, yet easy-to-understand, syntactic specication of a programming language. 

2、From certain classes of grammars, we can construct automatically an efficient parser that determines the syntactic structure of a source program. As a side benefit, the parser-construction process can reveal syntactic ambiguities and trouble spots that might have slipped through the initial design phase of a language. 

> NOTE:
>
> 一、"From certain classes of grammars, we can construct automatically an efficient parser that determines the syntactic structure of a source program"
>
> 特定类型的grammar才能够自动化的构建parser，而不是所有的grammar

3、The structure imparted to a language by a properly designed grammar is useful for translating source programs into correct object code and for detecting errors. 

4、A grammar allows a language to be evolved or developed iteratively, by adding new constructs to perform new tasks. These new constructs can be integrated more easily into an implementation that follows the grammatical structure of the language.



## 4.1 Introduction 

In this section, we examine the way the parser fits into a typical compiler. We then look at typical grammars for arithmetic expressions. Grammars for expressions suffice for illustrating the essence of parsing, since parsing techniques for expressions carry over to most programming constructs. This section ends with a discussion of error handling, since the parser must respond gracefully to finding that its input cannot be generated by its grammar.
